docs/relay/extending_with_bundles.md, before:

# Extending with Bundles

By default, a fresh API server does not provide any API or other client facing
functionality. You can extend the server with features by adding so-called
bundles.

There are four types of bundles:

* **Core bundles** — bundles which provide core functionality
* **API bundles** — self-contained bundles which add API endpoints and
  optionally connect with some external service
* **Abstract API bundles** — bundles which provide API endpoints but leave the
  actual implementation up to a connector bundle
* **Connector bundles** — bundles which connect an abstract bundle with some
  external service to make them complete.

```mermaid
graph TD
    style ext_service1 fill:#46A046,color:#fff
    style ext_service2 fill:#C1665A,color:#fff

    subgraph  ""
        api(("API"))
        core_bundle("Core Bundle")
        api_bundle("API Bundle")
        abstract_api_bundle("Abstract API Bundle")
        connector_bundle("Connector Bundle")
    end

    subgraph  ""
        ext_service1("External Service")
        ext_service2("External Service")
    end

    api --> core_bundle
    api --> api_bundle
    api --> abstract_api_bundle
    api_bundle --> ext_service1
    connector_bundle --> ext_service2
    abstract_api_bundle --> connector_bundle
```

## Installing & Configuring a Bundle

Adding a bundle is as simple as installing it with composer:

```shell
composer require dbp/relay-greenlight-bundle
```

Installing will do the following things:

* Register the bundle in the `config/bundles.php` file.
* Write an example configuration file under `config/packages`. See the [bundle
  configuration page](./bundle_config.md) for details.
* Write various example configuration environment variables into the `.env`
  file. See the [configuration page](./config.md) for details.

In case of an abstract bundle you also need to add a corresponding connector
bundle.

Once everything is configured you can check that everything is working correctly
via the [health check command](./health_checks.md).

Commit message:

extending: remove the abstract bundle type again
Instead merge it into the API bundle type and explain that they
come in different froms, fully self container to just providing an API
without implementing it and everything inbetween.

docs/relay/extending_with_bundles.md, after:

# Extending with Bundles

By default, a fresh API server does not provide any API or other client facing
functionality. You can extend the server with features by adding so-called
bundles.

There are three types of bundles:

* **Core bundles** — bundles which provide core functionality
* **API bundles** — bundles which add API endpoints - they come in different
  forms:
    * **Fully self contained** bundles which handle everything themselves, from
      storage to communicating with external services.
    * **Not fully self contained** bundles which need one more connector bundles
      for talking to external services. This allows users to easily switch
      between different external services, or develop a custom connector for
      their own external service.
    * Or bundles which are a **mix of the above two**, where for example some
      storage mechanism is implemented in the API bundle directly, but
      communication with some external API is handled via a connector bundle.
* **Connector bundles** — bundles which connect an API bundle with some external
  service or backend.

```mermaid
graph TD
    style ext_service1 fill:#46A046,color:#fff
    style ext_service2 fill:#C1665A,color:#fff

    subgraph  ""
        api(("API"))
        core_bundle("Core Bundle")
        api_bundle1("API Bundle")
        api_bundle2("API Bundle")
        connector_bundle("Connector Bundle")
    end

    subgraph  ""
        ext_service1("External Service")
        ext_service2("External Service")
    end

    api --> core_bundle
    api --> api_bundle1
    api --> api_bundle2
    api_bundle1 --> ext_service1
    connector_bundle --> ext_service2
    api_bundle2 --> connector_bundle
```

## Installing & Configuring a Bundle

Adding a bundle is as simple as installing it with composer:

```shell
composer require dbp/relay-greenlight-bundle
```

Installing will do the following things:

* Register the bundle in the `config/bundles.php` file.
* Write an example configuration file under `config/packages`. See the [bundle
  configuration page](./bundle_config.md) for details.
* Write various example configuration environment variables into the `.env`
  file. See the [configuration page](./config.md) for details.

In some cases the API bundles also requires a corresponding connector bundle to
be installed. For example:

```shell
composer require dbp/relay-greenlight-connector-campusonline-bundle
```

Once everything is configured you can check that everything is working correctly
via the [health check command](./health_checks.md).
