docs/relay/index.md, before:

# About

The "Relay API Gateway" is a framework for creating a REST API server for
building applications and workflows on top of it. It abstracts away various
backend systems, provides user management, authentication, caching, locking,
authorization and a modular system for composing an API with so called API
bundles. Various bundles are readily available and can be configured to your
needs, or you can write your own bundles to extend the system/API.

```mermaid
graph TD
    style ext_apps fill:#606096,color:#fff
    style ext_service1 fill:#46A046,color:#fff
    style ext_service2 fill:#C1665A,color:#fff

    ext_apps[\"External Desktop/Mobile/Server/Web Applications"/]
    oidc_server("OpenID Connect Server (e.g. Keycloak)")
    ext_service1("External Service A")
    ext_service2("External Service B")

    subgraph API Gateway
        api(("API"))
        core_bundle("Core Bundle")
        custom_bundle1("Custom Bundle A")
        custom_bundle2("Custom Bundle B")
    end

    api --> core_bundle
    api --> custom_bundle1
    api --> custom_bundle2
    custom_bundle1 --> core_bundle
    custom_bundle1 --> ext_service1
    custom_bundle2 --> core_bundle
    custom_bundle2 --> ext_service2
    ext_apps --> api
    ext_apps --> oidc_server
    core_bundle --> oidc_server
```

The framework consists of a core bundle which provides functionality that's
useful in a multitude of API use cases, authentication, caching, logging,
automatic API documentation, integration with the Symfony and API Platform
frameworks etc.

All other functionality is implemented in extra bundles which can add new
endpoints to the API and, in turn, can depend on other bundles and their
endpoints. For example a bundle providing a library management API can add new
endpoints for working with books by talking to an external library system. It
can depend on the core bundle for user management and authentication.

See [Extending with Bundles](./extending_with_bundles.md) for more details on
the types of bundles that are available.

### API Clients

External apps, like browser or mobile applications can be written easily to
access data via the [API](#api). The user authentication is done via an OIDC
server like Keycloak.

An example for a web application would be the [Library
application](https://dbp-demo.tugraz.at/apps/sublibrary/en).

External services like server applications that don't act on behalf of a user
can access the API via "Client Credential" grants, also available in Keycloak
for example.

### Extending and Customizing

The API gateway can be easily extended by simply installing an existing bundle,
hooking into extensions points of existing bundles, or writing your very own
bundle.

If you write your own bundle you can create completely new APIs, or just connect
an existing API to a new external system. If you then share your code with the
world then everyone can profit 😊

For how to write your own bundle please see our [Developer Guide](./dev).

Commit message:

relay: in the extension part link to the respective pages
Link to how to install a new bundle, extend with hooks (still needs to be written)
and to the dev guide for writing new bundles.

docs/relay/index.md, after:

# About

The "Relay API Gateway" is a framework for creating a REST API server for
building applications and workflows on top of it. It abstracts away various
backend systems, provides user management, authentication, caching, locking,
authorization and a modular system for composing an API with so called API
bundles. Various bundles are readily available and can be configured to your
needs, or you can write your own bundles to extend the system/API.

```mermaid
graph TD
    style ext_apps fill:#606096,color:#fff
    style ext_service1 fill:#46A046,color:#fff
    style ext_service2 fill:#C1665A,color:#fff

    ext_apps[\"External Desktop/Mobile/Server/Web Applications"/]
    oidc_server("OpenID Connect Server (e.g. Keycloak)")
    ext_service1("External Service A")
    ext_service2("External Service B")

    subgraph API Gateway
        api(("API"))
        core_bundle("Core Bundle")
        custom_bundle1("Custom Bundle A")
        custom_bundle2("Custom Bundle B")
    end

    api --> core_bundle
    api --> custom_bundle1
    api --> custom_bundle2
    custom_bundle1 --> core_bundle
    custom_bundle1 --> ext_service1
    custom_bundle2 --> core_bundle
    custom_bundle2 --> ext_service2
    ext_apps --> api
    ext_apps --> oidc_server
    core_bundle --> oidc_server
```

The framework consists of a core bundle which provides functionality that's
useful in a multitude of API use cases, authentication, caching, logging,
automatic API documentation, integration with the Symfony and API Platform
frameworks etc.

All other functionality is implemented in extra bundles which can add new
endpoints to the API and, in turn, can depend on other bundles and their
endpoints. For example a bundle providing a library management API can add new
endpoints for working with books by talking to an external library system. It
can depend on the core bundle for user management and authentication.

See [Extending with Bundles](./extending_with_bundles.md) for more details on
the types of bundles that are available.

### API Clients

External apps, like browser or mobile applications can be written easily to
access data via the [API](#api). The user authentication is done via an OIDC
server like Keycloak.

An example for a web application would be the [Library
application](https://dbp-demo.tugraz.at/apps/sublibrary/en).

External services like server applications that don't act on behalf of a user
can access the API via "Client Credential" grants, also available in Keycloak
for example.

### Extending and Customizing

The API gateway can be easily extended by simply [installing an existing
bundle](./extending_with_bundles.md), changing exiting bundle behavior via
[event hooks](./hooks.md), or writing your very own bundle.

If you write your own bundle you can create completely new APIs, or connect an
existing API to a new external system. If you then share your bundle with the
world everyone can install it and profit 😊

For how to write your own bundle please see our [Developer Guide](./dev).
