docs/blueprints/sublibrary.md, before:

# Sublibrary

!!! note
    This guide is currently a work in progress.


```mermaid
graph TD
    style sublibrary_bundle fill:#606096,color:#fff

    sublibrary_bundle("Sublibrary Bundle")

    subgraph Ex Libris
        alma_analytics("ALMA Analytics")
        alma_api("ALMA API")
    end

    subgraph University
        person_bundle("Person Bundle")
        organization_bundle("Organization Bundle")
        campusonline("CAMPUSonline")
        ldap("LDAP")
    end

    sublibrary_bundle --> alma_api
    sublibrary_bundle --> alma_analytics
    sublibrary_bundle --> person_bundle
    sublibrary_bundle --> organization_bundle
    organization_bundle --> campusonline
    person_bundle --> ldap
```

## Development Guide Backend

First create an API gateway:

```bash
composer create-project dbp/relay-server-template my-api
cd docker-dev
./build.sh
docker compose up
```

You can access the API at `http://api.localhost:8000`.

Then we need to install the required API bundles:

```bash
composer require dbp/relay-frontend-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-sublibrary-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-sublibrary-connector-base-organization-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-organization-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-organization-connector-campusonline-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-person-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-person-connector-ldap-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-core-connector-oidc-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-core-connector-ldap-bundle
```

### Configuration

**relay-frontend-bundle:**

The frontend bundle exposes the user roles (i.e. the general permissions the user has) to the frontend.

Give every user the frontend role for managing the library:

```yaml
dbp_relay_frontend:
  roles:
    ROLE_LIBRARY_MANAGER: 'true'
```

**relay-sublibrary-bundle**

The sublibrary bundle is the main bundle that provides the library API.

Fill out the `SUBLIBRARY_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

in `dbp_relay_sublibrary.yaml`:

```yaml
dbp_relay_sublibrary:
    api_url: '%env(SUBLIBRARY_ALMA_API_URL)%'
    api_key: '%env(SUBLIBRARY_ALMA_API_KEY)%'
    analytics_api_key: '%env(SUBLIBRARY_ALMA_ANALYTICS_API_KEY)%'
    person_local_data_attributes:
        email: email
        alma_id: almaId
    authorization:
        roles:
            ROLE_LIBRARY_MANAGER: 'true'
        attributes:
            SUBLIBRARY_IDS: '["1263"]'
            ALMA_LIBRARY_IDS: '["F2190"]'
```

* Set `ROLE_LIBRARY_MANAGER: 'true'` to allow everyone to access the API
* Fill out `SUBLIBRARY_IDS` with the IDs used by the base organization connector that the user should have access to
* Fill out `ALMA_LIBRARY_IDS` with the ALMA library IDS that the user should have access to
* Set `person_local_data_attributes` to map the attributes that are exposed by the base person connector

**relay-sublibrary-connector-base-organization-bundle**

This bundle provides library entities to the sublibrary bundle by deriving them from the organization API.

Configure that the library code is retrieved via the "code" attribute from the base organization:

```yaml
dbp_relay_sublibrary_connector_base_organization:
    library_code_local_data_attribute: 'code'
```

**relay-base-organization-bundle**

The base organization bundle provides the organization API.

No configuration needed.

**relay-base-organization-connector-campusonline-bundle**

This bundle provides the organization entities to the base organization bundle
by deriving them from the CAMPUSonline API.

Fill out the `CAMPUS_ONLINE_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

Map the organization code to the "code" attribute:

```yaml
dbp_relay_base_organization_connector_campusonline:
  local_data_mapping:
    - local_data_attribute: code
      source_attribute: code
```

We map in the "code" attribute from CAMPUSonline so we can use it in the base organization connector.

**relay-base-person-bundle**

This bundle provides the person API.

No configuration needed.

**relay-base-person-connector-ldap-bundle**

This bundle provides the person entities to the base person bundle by deriving them from LDAP.

Fill out the `LDAP_PERSON_PROVIDER_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

Map the following LDAP attributes to the local data attributes:

```yaml
dbp_relay_base_person_connector_ldap:
  local_data_mapping:
    - local_data_attribute: email
      source_attribute: mail
    - local_data_attribute: almaId
      source_attribute: co-alma-patron-id
```

We map in the "mail" and "co-alma-patron-id" attributes from LDAP so we can use
them in the sublibrary bundle.

**relay-core-connector-ldap-bundle:**

This bundle provides LDAP connections which can be used by all LDAP bundles.

Fill out the `LDAP_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.
If needed adjust the encryption method in `config/packages/relay_core_connector_ldap.yaml`:

```yaml
dbp_relay_core_connector_ldap:
    connections:
        DEFAULT:
          encryption: 'simple_tls'
```

**relay-core-connector-oidc-bundle:**

This bundle handles token validation and general authentication for the API.

Fill out the `OIDC_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

### Final Steps & Customization

After everything is configured you can run the health checks to see if everything
is working:

```bash
./bin/console dbp:relay:core:check-health
```

If your library <-> organization mapping is not straight forward because the ID
format is different you can adjust the mapping in PHP code by implementing an
event handler for `SublibraryProviderPostEvent`.

Now you can start the accompanying frontend app.

## Development Guide Frontend

Clone the app, install all dependencies and start the development server:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/digital-blueprint/sublibrary-app
cd sublibrary-app
git submodule update --init
npm install
npm run watch
```

Commit message:

sublibrary: remove relay-sublibrary-connector-base-organization-bundle
this is now handled by the sublibrary bundle directly

docs/blueprints/sublibrary.md, after:

# Sublibrary

!!! note
    This guide is currently a work in progress.


```mermaid
graph TD
    style sublibrary_bundle fill:#606096,color:#fff

    sublibrary_bundle("Sublibrary Bundle")

    subgraph Ex Libris
        alma_analytics("ALMA Analytics")
        alma_api("ALMA API")
    end

    subgraph University
        person_bundle("Person Bundle")
        organization_bundle("Organization Bundle")
        campusonline("CAMPUSonline")
        ldap("LDAP")
    end

    sublibrary_bundle --> alma_api
    sublibrary_bundle --> alma_analytics
    sublibrary_bundle --> person_bundle
    sublibrary_bundle --> organization_bundle
    organization_bundle --> campusonline
    person_bundle --> ldap
```

## Development Guide Backend

First create an API gateway:

```bash
composer create-project dbp/relay-server-template my-api
cd docker-dev
./build.sh
docker compose up
```

You can access the API at `http://api.localhost:8000`.

Then we need to install the required API bundles:

```bash
composer require dbp/relay-frontend-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-sublibrary-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-organization-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-organization-connector-campusonline-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-person-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-base-person-connector-ldap-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-core-connector-oidc-bundle
composer require dbp/relay-core-connector-ldap-bundle
```

### Configuration

**relay-frontend-bundle:**

The frontend bundle exposes the user roles (i.e. the general permissions the user has) to the frontend.

Give every user the frontend role for managing the library:

```yaml
dbp_relay_frontend:
  roles:
    ROLE_LIBRARY_MANAGER: 'true'
```

**relay-sublibrary-bundle**

The sublibrary bundle is the main bundle that provides the library API.

Fill out the `SUBLIBRARY_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

in `dbp_relay_sublibrary.yaml`:

```yaml
dbp_relay_sublibrary:
    api_url: '%env(SUBLIBRARY_ALMA_API_URL)%'
    api_key: '%env(SUBLIBRARY_ALMA_API_KEY)%'
    analytics_api_key: '%env(SUBLIBRARY_ALMA_ANALYTICS_API_KEY)%'
    person_local_data_attributes:
        email: email
        alma_id: almaId
    organization_local_data_attributes:
        code: code
    authorization:
        roles:
            ROLE_LIBRARY_MANAGER: 'true'
        attributes:
            SUBLIBRARY_IDS: '["1263"]'
            ALMA_LIBRARY_IDS: '["F2190"]'
```

* Set `ROLE_LIBRARY_MANAGER: 'true'` to allow everyone to access the API
* Fill out `SUBLIBRARY_IDS` with the IDs used by the base organization connector that the user should have access to
* Fill out `ALMA_LIBRARY_IDS` with the ALMA library IDS that the user should have access to
* Set `person_local_data_attributes` to map the attributes that are exposed by the base person connector
* Set `organization_local_data_attributes` to map the attributes that are exposed by the base organization connector

**relay-base-organization-bundle**

The base organization bundle provides the organization API.

No configuration needed.

**relay-base-organization-connector-campusonline-bundle**

This bundle provides the organization entities to the base organization bundle
by deriving them from the CAMPUSonline API.

Fill out the `CAMPUS_ONLINE_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

Map the organization code to the "code" attribute:

```yaml
dbp_relay_base_organization_connector_campusonline:
  local_data_mapping:
    - local_data_attribute: code
      source_attribute: code
```

We map in the "code" attribute from CAMPUSonline so we can use it in the base organization connector.

**relay-base-person-bundle**

This bundle provides the person API.

No configuration needed.

**relay-base-person-connector-ldap-bundle**

This bundle provides the person entities to the base person bundle by deriving them from LDAP.

Fill out the `LDAP_PERSON_PROVIDER_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

Map the following LDAP attributes to the local data attributes:

```yaml
dbp_relay_base_person_connector_ldap:
  local_data_mapping:
    - local_data_attribute: email
      source_attribute: mail
    - local_data_attribute: almaId
      source_attribute: co-alma-patron-id
```

We map in the "mail" and "co-alma-patron-id" attributes from LDAP so we can use
them in the sublibrary bundle.

**relay-core-connector-ldap-bundle:**

This bundle provides LDAP connections which can be used by all LDAP bundles.

Fill out the `LDAP_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.
If needed adjust the encryption method in `config/packages/relay_core_connector_ldap.yaml`:

```yaml
dbp_relay_core_connector_ldap:
    connections:
        DEFAULT:
          encryption: 'simple_tls'
```

**relay-core-connector-oidc-bundle:**

This bundle handles token validation and general authentication for the API.

Fill out the `OIDC_*` environment variables in `.env.local`.

### Final Steps & Customization

After everything is configured you can run the health checks to see if everything
is working:

```bash
./bin/console dbp:relay:core:check-health
```

If your library <-> organization mapping is not straight forward because the ID
format is different you can adjust the mapping in PHP code by implementing an
event handler for `SublibraryProviderPostEvent`.

Now you can start the accompanying frontend app.

## Development Guide Frontend

Clone the app, install all dependencies and start the development server:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/digital-blueprint/sublibrary-app
cd sublibrary-app
git submodule update --init
npm install
npm run watch
```
