docs/cd/secondary-design-elements.md, before:

# Secondary Design Elements

## The squares
The Squares can be used as design element for sujets, patterns, backgrounds or headers.
The squares are not allowed to changed, neigher the color, the distance, the width, the opacity not the gradient.
The correct file depending on the background must be used: *squares_white.svg* [[Fig. 1]](#fig1) or *squares_black.svg* [[Fig. 2]](#fig2). The squares are not allowed to use on a different background than black or white.

<figure id="fig1" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/squares_white.svg" alt="Squares on white background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 1: Squares on white background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="fig2" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/squares_black.svg" alt="Squares on black background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 2: Squares on black background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

## Single square
The Square can be used as design element for sujets, patterns backgrounds or headers.
The square are not allowed to changed, neigher the color, the distance, the width, the opacity not the gradient.
The correct file depending on the background must be used: *square_white.svg* [[Fig. 3]](#fig3) or *square_black.svg* [[Fig. 4]](#fig4). The square is not allowed to use on a different background than black or white.


<figure id="fig3" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/square_white.svg" alt="Square on white background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 3: Square on white background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="fig4" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/square_black.svg" alt="Square on black background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 4: Square on black background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

## The Chevrons
You can use the chevrons for designing sujets, patterns, backgrounds or headers.
The chevrons are not allowed to change, neither the color nor the gradient, also the distance or the width is not allowed to be changed.
The chevrons have to be used on white background.
The correct file must be used in each case, if a white background is required then the *chevrons_white.svg* [[Fig. 5]](#fig5) must be used and on black background the file *chevrons_black.svg* [[Fig. 6]](#fig6) must be used.
The chevrons are not allowed to use on another background than black or white.

<figure id="fig5" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/chevron_white.svg" alt="Chevrons on white background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 5: Chevrons on white background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="fig6" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/chevron_black.svg" alt="Chevrons on black background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 6: Chevrons on black background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

Add description to secondary design elements

docs/cd/secondary-design-elements.md, after:

# Secondary Design Elements
A secondary design element is part of the brand design, the corporate design. It is a design element, often derived from the logo design, which runs through all means of communication like a visual constant and homogeneously “holds together” a brand design.
Secondary design elements are not used for replacing the logo. They are used to decorating means of communication in the corporate design.


## The squares
The Squares can be used as design element for sujets, patterns, backgrounds or headers.
The squares are not allowed to changed, neigher the color, the distance, the width, the opacity not the gradient.
The correct file depending on the background must be used: *squares_white.svg* [[Fig. 1]](#fig1) or *squares_black.svg* [[Fig. 2]](#fig2). The squares are not allowed to use on a different background than black or white.

<figure id="fig1" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/squares_white.svg" alt="Squares on white background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 1: Squares on white background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="fig2" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/squares_black.svg" alt="Squares on black background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 2: Squares on black background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

## Single square
The Square can be used as design element for sujets, patterns backgrounds or headers.
The square are not allowed to changed, neigher the color, the distance, the width, the opacity not the gradient.
The correct file depending on the background must be used: *square_white.svg* [[Fig. 3]](#fig3) or *square_black.svg* [[Fig. 4]](#fig4). The square is not allowed to use on a different background than black or white.


<figure id="fig3" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/square_white.svg" alt="Square on white background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 3: Square on white background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="fig4" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/square_black.svg" alt="Square on black background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 4: Square on black background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

## The Chevrons
You can use the chevrons for designing sujets, patterns, backgrounds or headers.
The chevrons are not allowed to change, neither the color nor the gradient, also the distance or the width is not allowed to be changed.
The chevrons have to be used on white background.
The correct file must be used in each case, if a white background is required then the *chevrons_white.svg* [[Fig. 5]](#fig5) must be used and on black background the file *chevrons_black.svg* [[Fig. 6]](#fig6) must be used.
The chevrons are not allowed to use on another background than black or white.

<figure id="fig5" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/chevron_white.svg" alt="Chevrons on white background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 5: Chevrons on white background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure id="fig6" style="width:100%;">
    <img src="../../assets/chevron_black.svg" alt="Chevrons on black background" style="width:100%; border: 1px solid black;">
    <figcaption align = "center">
        <b>Fig. 6: Chevrons on black background</b>
    </figcaption>
</figure>
