docs/howtos/deployment.md, before:

# Auto-Deployment with GitLab & Deployer

-   Each git repo has different deployment environments. Each
    environment is a list basically of servers where the same code is
    deployed to. Usually "development", "test", "demo",
    "staging", "production" etc.
-   The "master"/"main" branch always gets deployed to "development". The
    "test" branch gets deployed to "test" etc.

## Example Deployment Flow for a "test" deployment

-   We commit code and push it to the "test" branch
-   A GitLab runner gets started which contains <https://deployer.org/>
    and makes itself ready for connecting per SSH to the target servers.
-   The runner executes "deployer" for the "test" stage
-   "deployer" executes the deployment tasks for all hosts and tasks
    matching the "test" stage.
-   Done

## How to set up a new deployment environment

-   A new "test" branch which is marked "protected"
-   A GitLab CI job which only runs for new commits on the "test"
    branch and can run "deployer"
-   A "deployer" stage named "test" which when run from the gitlab
    runner does everything needed to get the code to the server,
    configure everything, restarts services, clears caches etc.
-   Gitlab CI variables which are targeted at the "test" environment
    and are "protected" for secrets used during deployment.

See <https://gitlab.tugraz.at/dbp/esign/pdf-as-server-qualified> for a
good example which uses multiple deployment environments and multiple
hosts per environment.

## How to prepare a server for SSH deployment

- Run `ssh-keygen` (set filename to 'mykey', no password)
- This creates 'mykey' and 'mykey.pub' in the current directory
- Rename the `user@hostname` part in 'mykey.pub' to indicate what the key is used for, for example 'gitlab-deployment-key'
- Run `ssh-copy-id -i mykey serveruser@someserver.tugraz.at` (the key
  is now in \~/.ssh/authorized\_keys on the server)
- Put the content of 'mykey' into gitlab

## How to deploy to a non-development environment

We simply make the `demo` branch point to the commit we want to deploy and push it (force push is allowed too). In the common case where we just want to deploy the current development state as is:

- `git checkout demo`
- `git rebase main` (or master if master is the default)
- `git push`
- `git checkout -`

Commit message:

deployment: clarify where the private key goes and use the same branch in all sections

docs/howtos/deployment.md, after:

# Auto-Deployment with GitLab & Deployer

-   Each git repo has different deployment environments. Each
    environment is a list basically of servers where the same code is
    deployed to. Usually "development", "test", "demo",
    "staging", "production" etc.
-   The "master"/"main" branch always gets deployed to "development". The
    "test" branch gets deployed to "test" etc.

## Example Deployment Flow for a "test" deployment

-   We commit code and push it to the "test" branch
-   A GitLab runner gets started which contains <https://deployer.org/>
    and makes itself ready for connecting per SSH to the target servers.
-   The runner executes "deployer" for the "test" stage
-   "deployer" executes the deployment tasks for all hosts and tasks
    matching the "test" stage.
-   Done

## How to set up a new deployment environment

-   A new "test" branch which is marked "protected"
-   A GitLab CI job which only runs for new commits on the "test"
    branch and can run "deployer"
-   A "deployer" stage named "test" which when run from the gitlab
    runner does everything needed to get the code to the server,
    configure everything, restarts services, clears caches etc.
-   Gitlab CI variables which are targeted at the "test" environment
    and are "protected" for secrets used during deployment.

See <https://gitlab.tugraz.at/dbp/esign/pdf-as-server-qualified> for a
good example which uses multiple deployment environments and multiple
hosts per environment.

## How to prepare a server for SSH deployment

- Run `ssh-keygen` (set filename to 'mykey', no password)
- This creates 'mykey' and 'mykey.pub' in the current directory
- Rename the `user@hostname` part in 'mykey.pub' to indicate what the key is used for, for example 'gitlab-deployment-key'
- Run `ssh-copy-id -i mykey serveruser@someserver.tugraz.at` (the key
  is now in \~/.ssh/authorized\_keys on the server)
- Put the content of 'mykey' into gitlab as a protected variable, targeting the specific deployment environment

## How to deploy to a non-development environment

We simply make the `test` branch point to the commit we want to deploy and push it (force push is allowed too). In the common case where we just want to deploy the current development state as is:

- `git checkout test`
- `git rebase main` (or master if master is the default)
- `git push`
- `git checkout -`
